The dataset comprises 21837 clinical 12-lead ECG records of 10 seconds length from 18885 patients, where 52% are male and 48% are female with ages covering the whole range from 0 to 95 years (median 62 and interquantile range of 22). The value of the dataset results from the comprehensive collection of many different co-occurring pathologies, but also from a large proportion of healthy control samples. The distribution of diagnosis is as follows, where we restrict for simplicity to diagnostic statements aggregated into superclasses (note: sum of statements exceeds the number of records because of potentially multiple labels per record):

|Records	|Superclass	|Description|
|----------|:-------------:|------:|
|9517	 |  NORM | Normal ECG |
|5473	 |  MI	 |  Myocardial  Infarction |
| 5237 |	STTC |	ST/T Change |
| 4901 |	CD   |	Conduction Disturbance |
| 2649 |	HYP  |	Hypertrophy |


The waveform files are stored in WaveForm DataBase (WFDB) format with 16 bit precision at a resolution of 1μV/LSB and a sampling frequency of 500Hz (records500/). For the user’s convenience we also release a downsampled versions of the waveform data at a sampling frequency of 100Hz (records100/).

All relevant metadata is stored in ptbxl_database.csv with one row per record identified by ecg_id. It contains 28 columns that can be categorized into:

1. Identifiers: Each record is identified by a unique ecg_id. The corresponding patient is encoded via patient_id. The paths to the original record (500 Hz) and a downsampled version of the record (100 Hz) are stored in filename_hr and filename_lr.
2. General Metadata: demographic and recording metadata such as age, sex, height, weight, nurse, site, device and recording_date
3. ECG statements: core components are scp_codes (SCP-ECG statements as a dictionary with entries of the form statement: likelihood, where likelihood is set to 0 if unknown) and report (report string). Additional fields are heart_axis, infarction_stadium1, infarction_stadium2, validated_by, second_opinion, initial_autogenerated_report and validated_by_human.
4. Signal Metadata: signal quality such as noise (static_noise and burst_noise), baseline drifts (baseline_drift) and other artifacts such as electrodes_problems. We also provide extra_beats for counting extra systoles and pacemaker for signal patterns indicating an active pacemaker.
5. Cross-validation Folds: recommended 10-fold train-test splits (strat_fold) obtained via stratified sampling while respecting patient assignments, i.e. all records of a particular patient were assigned to the same fold. Records in fold 9 and 10 underwent at least one human evaluation and are therefore of a particularly high label quality. We therefore propose to use folds 1-8 as training set, fold 9 as validation set and fold 10 as test set.

All information related to the used annotation scheme is stored in a dedicated scp_statements.csv that was enriched with mappings to other annotation standards such as AHA, aECGREFID, CDISC and DICOM. We provide additional side-information such as the category each statement can be assigned to (diagnostic, form and/or rhythm). For diagnostic statements, we also provide a proposed hierarchical organization into diagnostic_class and diagnostic_subclass.

Furtehr info here https://physionet.org/content/ptb-xl/1.0.2/
